type:: [[person]]
role:: [[Systems engineer]], [[Program manager]]
profile:: [CMMI Institute - Dr. Brian P. Gallagher](https://www.cmmiinstitute.com/capability-counts/2019/speakers/dr-brian-p-gallagher), [Brian Gallagher Biography CACI](http://c4i.gmu.edu/eventsInfo/reviews/2014/abstracts_bios/Brian%20Gallagher%20Bio.pdf), [Meeting Mission and Enterprise Customers’ Most Critical Needs | CACI](https://www.caci.com/about-caci)
 organization:: [[CACI International Inc.]]

- ## About
  collapsed:: true
	- Dr. Gallagher is Senior Vice President of Operational Excellence for CACI International Inc, a $4 billion information systems solutions and services company. He is responsible for CACI’s ==integrated program management and delivery methods==, ==process effectiveness==, ==quality assurance==, and ==continuous improvement initiatives==. Previously, Brian was the Director of ==Engineering and Mission Assurance== for Northrop Grumman’s Intelligence and Cyber Divisions and served as a Director at the Software Engineering Institute, leading teams serving the Department of Defense and other government agencies. Brian is a retired Air Force Officer and received his Ph.D. from Colorado State University.
	- ---
	- Brian Gallagher is Senior Vice President of Operational Excellence for CACI International Inc, a $3.7 billion information systems solutions and services company. In this role, he is responsible for CACI’s integrated program management and delivery methods, process effectiveness, quality assurance, and continuous improvement initiatives.
	- Prior to this position, Brian was the Director of Engineering and Mission Assurance for Northrop Grumman’s Intelligence and Cyber Divisions, where he provided leadership critical to ==mission success== involving engineering, quality assurance, process effectiveness, program execution, and supplier assurance.
	- Previously Mr. Gallagher served as Director of Acquisition Support at the Software Engineering Institute (SEI), leading teams serving the Department of Defense and other government agencies. He also enjoyed a career in the U.S. Air Force career, serving as Deputy Chief of Software Engineering with the Air Intelligence Agency; Chief Engineer on the Range Operations Control Center Project at Cape Canaveral in Florida; a ==program manager on the Titan IV Program==; and an engineer with the Strategic Air Command. Mr. Gallagher has authored numerous publications on ==program and acquisition management==, ==risk management==, ==engineering==, and ==quality management== and is a frequent speaker at management and engineering conferences and customer-sponsored events.
	- Mr. Gallagher is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Systems Engineering through Colorado State 
	  University holds a master of science degree in computer science/software engineering from the Florida Institute of Technology and a bachelor of technology degree from Peru State College. He is ==Six Sigma trained==; is certified as a ==CMMI SCAMPI high maturity lead appraiser in CMMI for Development and CMMI for Services==, as well as a lead appraiser for the ==CERT Resilience Management Model==; and is a certified instructor for Introduction to the ==CMMI-DEV, Introduction to the CMMI-ACQ, Continuous Risk Management, and Software Acquisition Survival Skills==. He is an associate fellow of AIAA and a member of IEEE, NDIA, and INCOSE, as well as a contributing author and body of knowledge and curriculum contributor to Advance Systems Engineering (www.bkcase.org). Mr. Gallagher also holds a TS/SCI clearance with CI and FS polygraphs.