type:: [[skill]]
source:: [[@The global skills and competency framework for a digital world]]
documentation:: Deploying, configuring and operating IT Infrastructure.
sfiacode:: [[ITOP]]
sfiaskill:: [[IT infrastructure]]
sfiacategory:: [[Delivery and operation]]
sfiasubcategory:: [[Technology management]]
sfiaguidancenotes:: IT infrastructure components include, but are not limited to, physical devices, virtual resources, infrastructure-related software, middleware, network services and data storage. Infrastructure components may be on-premises, outsourced, or provisioned as cloud services. Activities may include — but are not limited to: preparing for new or changed services to meet defined needs of organisational users or providers; maintaining and enhancing the IT infrastructure and infrastructure components, including task automation via tools and coding; managing and applying software updates; building and managing systems and components in virtualised and cloud computing environments; monitoring the performance of systems and services related to their contribution to organisation performance, security and sustainability.
sfialevel1description:: Contributes, under supervision, to routine infrastructure operation. Gains understanding of infrastructure components and services by following the activities of experienced colleagues.
sfialevel2description:: Carries out routine operational procedures, including the execution of specified automation tools/scripts. Amends existing automation tasks under supervision to gain a basic understanding of the scripting language/automation tools. Contributes to maintenance and installation. Monitors and reports on infrastructure performance to enable service delivery. Resolves issues or refers to others for assistance.
sfialevel3description:: Provisions/installs, configures and maintains infrastructure services and components. Monitors, measures and reports on infrastructure load, performance and security events. Identifies operational issues and contributes to their resolution. Carries out agreed operational procedures, including backup/restore, using supplied infrastructure tools and scripts. Carries out agreed system software maintenance tasks. Automates routine system administration tasks to specifications using standard tools and basic scripting.
sfialevel4description:: Provides technical expertise to enable the correct application of operational procedures. Contributes to the planning and implementation of infrastructure maintenance and updates. Implements agreed infrastructure changes and maintenance routines. Uses infrastructure management tools to determine load and performance statistics. Configures tools and/or creates scripts to automate the provisioning, testing and deployment of new and changed infrastructure. Maintains operational procedures and checks that they are executed following agreed standards. Investigates and enables the resolution of operational issues. Provides reports and proposals for improvement, to specialists, users and managers.
sfialevel5description:: Provides technical leadership to optimise the performance of IT infrastructure. Investigates and manages the adoption of tools, techniques and processes (including automation) for the management of systems and services. Oversees the planning, installation, maintenance and acceptance of new and updated infrastructure components and infrastructure-based services. Aligns to service expectations, security requirements and other quality standards. Ensures that operational procedures and documentation are fit for purpose and kept up to date. Ensures that operational issues are identified, recorded, monitored and resolved. Provides appropriate status and other reports to specialists, users and managers.

-