type:: [[skill]]
source:: [[@The global skills and competency framework for a digital world]]
documentation:: Managing the provision of technology-based services to meet defined organisational needs.
sfiacode:: [[ITMG]]
sfiaskill:: [[Technology service management]]
sfiacategory:: [[Delivery and operation]]
sfiasubcategory:: [[Technology management]]
sfiaguidancenotes:: Technology-based services may include — but are not limited to — IT infrastructure, audio-visual services, end-user computing, enterprise applications, facilities, communications services and industrial control systems. Activities may include — but are not limited to: approving, preparing, planning and managing new or changed services; managing the performance of systems and services in terms of their contribution to business outcomes, financial costs and sustainability; end-to-end management of services, whether delivered internally or sourced externally; integrating internal and external services as well as delivery options leveraging multiple service delivery capabilities; developing and implementing continual service improvement plans to ensure the technology services adequately support changing needs.
sfialevel5description:: Takes responsibility for managing the design, procurement, installation, upgrading, operation, control, maintenance and effective use of specific technology services. Leads the delivery of services, ensuring that agreed service levels, security requirements and other quality standards are met. Ensures adherence to relevant policies and procedures. Ensures that processes and practices are aligned across teams and providers to operate effectively and efficiently. Monitors the performance of technology services. Provides appropriate status and other reports to managers and senior users.
sfialevel6description:: Identifies and manages resources needed for budgeting, estimating, planning, developing and delivering a specified portfolio of technology services and systems. Engages with and influences stakeholders to ensure that services are developed and managed to meet agreed service levels, security requirements and other quality standards. Plans and manages the implementation of processes and procedures, tools and techniques for monitoring and managing the performance of technology services. Aligns the contribution of specified systems and services to clearly stated organisational and financial goals and performance targets. Recommends options for sourcing — whether in-house, outsourced, or a combination. Monitors performance of delivery teams and takes corrective action where necessary and in line with policies.
sfialevel7description:: Sets strategy for the management of the portfolio of technology services. Aligns technology service management with organisational strategies, objectives and emerging opportunities. Promotes the opportunities technology offers the organisation, including the feasibility of change and its likely impact. Authorises the establishment of new or modified technology service delivery capabilities. Integrates in-house and outsourced options, as well as delivery options leveraging multiple service delivery capabilities. Authorises allocation of resources for the planning, development and delivery of all technical services and products. Maintains an overview of the contribution of technology services to organisational success.

-